American Bankers Insurance Company of Florida
[A Stock Insurance Company]
[11222 Quail Roost Drive, Miami, FL 33157-6596 (305) 253-2244]

COMMERCIAL INLAND MARINE PROTECTION LENDER EXPOSURE
(MANUFACTURED HOME)

CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE 

TABLE OF CONTENTS


Insuring Agreement 	1
Definitions 	1-2
Section I - Coverage	2
Section II – Exclusions 	2
Section III – Conditions:
	Action Against Us	2
	Acts of Agents	2
	Appraisal 	2-3
	Automatic Reinstatement of Coverage	3
		Bankruptcy or Insolvency	3
	Cancellation	3
	Concealment and Fraud	3
	Conformity to State Statutes	3

Deductible	3
Examination of Records	3
Lenders Interest	3
Liberalization	3
Limitation of Transfer	3
Location of Property	3
No Benefit to Bailee	3-4
Other Insurance	4
Our Payment Methods	4
Our Right to Recover Payment	4
Premium	4
Premium Refund	4
Settlement of Claim Requirements	4-5


____________________________________________________________________________________________________________


INSURING AGREEMENT

We agree to provide the coverage described in this Certificate of Insurance in return for the payment of premium and compliance with all applicable conditions of this Certificate of Insurance. 

DEFINITIONS

We, us, and our means American Bankers Insurance Company of Florida.

Actual cash value means the amount it would cost to repair or replace damaged property with material of like kind and quality, less allowance for physical deterioration and depreciation, including obsolescence.
Alteration means changes made in the property by someone in lawful possession of the property resulting in a reduction in value.  

Borrower means the individual or retail purchaser shown on the Certificate of Insurance Declarations who is indebted to the lender under a legally enforceable security agreement.
Business means:
1.	any full or part-time trade, profession, occupation or activity engaged in for compensation;
2.	rental or holding for rental part of the manufactured home as a residence, private garage, office, or school; or
3.	providing home day care services to a person(s) other than borrower and receiving monetary or other compensation for such services.
Conversion means the wrongful use of insured property by someone in lawful possession of the property including the transfer of ownership without the permission of the lienholder or any other party holding an interest in the property.
In transit means the period of time during which the leveling jacks or blocks are removed and all utilities are disconnected for the purpose of transporting the manufactured home from one location to another. This applies whether or not the manufactured home is momentarily in motion and whether on a public roadway or otherwise.

Lender means the lienholder (person or organization) shown as the Master Policyholder on the Certificate of Insurance Declarations, who has a legal interest in the property which serves as collateral under a security agreement. 

Manufactured home means one, two or more factory fabricated, transportable units, including attached structures and their replacements which remain part of the manufactured home.
Manufactured home includes:
1.	parts, equipment and accessories as described in the certificate of origin, manufacturer’s invoice, sales contract and replacements of these items which remain part of the manufactured home; and
2.	the tie-down anchoring systems.
The manufactured home must be:
1.	constructed to be towed on a chassis or other similar means of transportation;
2.	connected to utilities; and
3.	designed with or without a permanent foundation for year round living. Property means a manufactured home written as collateral for a loan as described on the Certificate of Insurance Declarations.
Property means a manufactured home written as collateral for a loan as described on the Certificate of Insurance Declarations.



Secretion means that someone in lawful possession of the property has moved or placed it in a new location, and the owner, lienholder or mortgagee is unaware of the new location.

Security agreement means any valid and enforceable lien instrument evidencing indebtedness to, or creating a lien on property held by the lender as collateral, and scheduled for monthly payments. These instruments shall include:
1.	Conditional Sales Contract;
2.	Chattel Mortgage;
3.	Conditional Bill of Sale;
4.	Promissory Note;
5.	Chattel Trust Deed;
6.	Deed of Trust;
7.	Secured Interest;
8.	Trust Receipt;
9.	Certificate of Title;
10.	Financing Statement; or
11.	Retail Installment Sales Contract.

SECTION I - COVERAGE

We will pay for direct and accidental physical loss to covered property which occurs during the policy period shown in the Certificate of Insurance Declarations except for the causes of loss shown in Section II. Exclusions.   

SECTION II - EXCLUSIONS

A. We will not pay for loss caused directly or indirectly by: 
1. alteration, conversion, embezzlement or secretion by any person in lawful possession of the property;
2. birds, rodents, insects, vermin or animals;
3.	condensation, humidity, or vapor, or by continuous or repeated seepage or leakage of water or steam over a period of weeks, months or years.  This exclusion does not apply to loss caused by sudden and accidental bursting, tearing apart, cracking, burning or bulging of the system, due to the pressure of, or lack of, water or steam from  plumbing, heating, fire sprinkler or air conditioning systems, or from within a household appliance;
4.	damage caused by tenants;
5.	dishonest, fraudulent or criminal acts by the borrower;
6.	enforcement of any governmental requirement regulating construction, confiscation (including from civil authority), repair, demolition, sale, occupancy or relocation of the property;
7.	freezing, rust, mold, wet or dry rot, corrosion or contamination;
8.	leakage from rain, sleet or snow or its resulting damage whether or not wind driven. However, this exclusion does not apply if a covered peril causes an opening in the roof or to the exterior of the manufactured home, which causes the leakage;
9.	nuclear action which means nuclear reaction, radiation or radioactive contamination. Direct loss by fire resulting from nuclear action is insured;
10.	riot, civil commotion, revolution or insurrection;
11.	settling, cracking, shrinking, bulging or expansion of pavements, patios, foundations of the property or any of its original parts; 
12.	smog, smoke from agricultural smudging or industrial operations;
13.	vandalism or malicious mischief, if the property is unoccupied for more than 30 consecutive days before the loss;
14.	war, hostile or warlike action in time of peace or war whether declared or not declared;
15.	water backing up through sewers or drains or water below the surface of the ground; or
16.	wear and tear, latent defects, marring, deterioration, inherent vice, neglect, abusive use, mechanical, structural or electrical breakdown or failure, or manufacturer defect.
B. 	We do not provide coverage for: 
1.	loss to tires, wheels, and axles, unless damage was caused by fire while attached to the property or if stolen from inside the property;
2.	personal property;
3.	property while in transit;
4.	property held as collateral under any floor plan or field warehouse type of financing;
5.	property used for any illegal trade or illegal business;
6.	property used exclusively for any business, commercial or non-residential purposes; or
7.	tie-down anchoring systems if caused by or resulting from rust, corrosion or faulty installation.

SECTION III - CONDITIONS

A. ACTION AGAINST US

The borrower may not bring action against us unless:
1.   	there has been full compliance with all of the terms of this Certificate of Insurance; and
2.	action is brought within one (1) year after the date  the direct physical loss or damage occurred.

B. ACTS OF AGENTS

Knowledge by our authorized agent of any fact that breaches a condition of this Certificate of Insurance will be knowledge by us, if such fact is known by our authorized agent at the time the Certificate of Insurance is issued.

C. APPRAISAL
If the lender, the borrower and we cannot agree on the amount of loss, either party:
1.	may demand an appraisal of the loss; and
2.	has the right to select a competent and disinterested appraiser within fifteen (15) days from the date of disagreement.
The appraisers will select an umpire. If the appraisers are unable to agree upon an umpire within fifteen (15) days, the lender, the borrower and we may ask a judge of a court of record in the lender’s or the borrower’s state to select an umpire. The appraisers will then determine the amount of loss. If they cannot agree on the actual cash value and the amount of loss, any differences will be submitted to the umpire. A decision by any two will be binding on all parties.



Each party will:
1.	pay its chosen appraiser; and
2.	share the expense of the appraisal and umpire equally.
We do not waive any of our rights under this Certificate of Insurance by agreeing to an appraisal.

D. AUTOMATIC REINSTATEMENT OF COVERAGE

Any damage to property under this Certificate of Insurance will reduce the amount of coverage available by the amount of the damage.  Coverage will return to the limit of liability shown on the Certificate of Insurance Declarations upon completion of repairs or replacements.

E. BANKRUPTY OR INSOLVENCY

Bankruptcy or insolvency of the lender or the borrower will not relieve us of any obligation under this Certificate of Insurance.

F. CANCELLATION

	1.	This Certificate of Insurance may be cancelled as follows:
a.	The lender may cancel the Certificate of Insurance by delivering or mailing to us and, unless the property is repossessed, the borrower written notice before cancellation is to become effective.
b.	We may cancel the Certificate of Insurance by delivering or mailing to the lender and the borrower written notice at least:
(1)	ten (10) days before the effective date of cancellation, if cancellation is for nonpayment of premium; or
(2)	thirty (30) days before the effective date of cancellation, if cancellation is for any other reason.
c.	The borrower may cancel by first obtaining the lender’s written consent and delivering or mailing to us written notice stating when thereafter cancellation will take effect.

2.	Any Certificate of Insurance will immediately terminate, with or without notice, upon:
a.	payment in full of the obligation assumed under the security agreement;
b.	sale, trade, transfer, abandonment or repossession of the property; or
c.	the inception of other insurance to cover the property, naming the lender as loss payee and providing  at least the same coverage.

G. CONCEALMENT AND FRAUD

We will cancel the borrower’s interest but not the lender’s interest in this Certificate of Insurance, whether before or after a loss, if the borrower:
1.	conceals or misrepresents any material fact;
2.	makes any fraudulent statement(s); or
3.	engages in any fraudulent conduct,
a.	in connection with this insurance; or
b.	in presentation of a claim.

H.	CONFORMITY TO STATE STATUTES

If any provision of this Certificate of Insurance conflicts with state or federal law or regulation, it is amended to conform to the minimum requirements of such statutes where it is issued, upon the effective date.

I. DEDUCTIBLE

Covered losses are subject to a deductible amount as shown on the Certificate of Insurance Declarations. If the loss is equal to or less than the deductible amount, there is no recovery under this Certificate of Insurance. If the loss is greater than the deductible amount, we will pay the amount of loss as determined by OUR PAYMENT METHODS, not to exceed the limit of liability shown on this Certificate of Insurance.  The deductible will apply on a per occurrence basis.

J. EXAMINATION OF RECORDS

We will have access to the lender’s books and records at all reasonable times.  Upon our request, the lender will provide original or certified copies of any required documents, books, accounts, bills, invoices or vouchers.  Any evasion or attempted evasion by the lender in connection with reports, payment of premium, or any matter relating to this insurance may void this Certificate of Insurance and shall be an absolute defense to suit or action brought under this Certificate of Insurance.

K. LENDER’S INTEREST

Except as to the application of a deductible, the lender’s interest in this insurance will not be reduced by any acts or omissions of the borrower over which the lender has no knowledge or control.

L. LIBERALIZATION

If we adopt any revision which would broaden coverage without an additional premium charge, the broadened coverage will immediately apply to this Certificate of Insurance.

M. LIMITATION OF TRANSFER

Coverage provided under a Certificate of Insurance is not transferable to any other property. 

N. LOCATION OF PROPERTY

We will pay for losses that occur during the policy period shown on the Certificate of Insurance Declarations while the property is within the United States of America, its territories or possessions.

O. NO BENEFIT TO BAILEE

This Certificate of Insurance does not provide coverage to benefit directly or indirectly any person, organization or entity:


1.	who is caring for or handling the property, other than the lender or the borrower; or
2.	holding, storing or transporting the property for a fee.
P. OTHER INSURANCE

A Certificate of Insurance is issued because the required evidence of insurance on the property was not received. Upon receipt of such evidence of insurance, the lender will promptly notify us or our agent and request coverage to be cancelled.  Coverage on the property will terminate as of the effective date of the other acceptable insurance.  The unearned premium will be computed in accordance with the terms of this Certificate of Insurance.
If at the time of loss, there is other insurance on the covered property naming the lender as loss payee and providing at least the same coverage, this Certificate of Insurance will terminate as of the effective date of the other acceptable insurance. The unearned premium will be computed in accordance with the terms of this Certificate of Insurance.

Q. OUR PAYMENT METHODS
1. 	Covered losses are settled as follows:
a.	Partial Losses- – the cost to repair or replace the damaged portion of the property without deduction for depreciation up to the limit of liability shown on the Certificate of Insurance Declarations, less any deductible. 
b.	Total Losses- the limit of liability shown on the Certificate of Insurance Declarations. 
2.	Our payment methods for specific types of losses:
a.	Pairs and Sets - in case of loss to part of a pair, set, series of objects, pieces or panels, either interior or exterior, we may:
(1)	repair or replace any part to restore the pair or set to its value before the loss; or
(2)	pay the difference between the actual cash value of the pair or set before and after the loss.
We cannot guarantee the availability of parts or replacements.  We will not be obligated to repair or replace the entire pair, set or series of objects, piece or panel when a part is lost or damaged.  Matching existing or adjacent part, piece or panel will be attempted but not required.
b.	Hail - the amount we pay for loss or damage from hail depends on the type of loss or damage it causes:
(1)	Hail can cause structural damage, which is the actual penetration of the exterior surface or the cracking or breaking of support materials.  When this type of loss or damage occurs, we will pay the cost of repairing or replacing the damaged portion of the property.
(2)	Hail often dents the exterior surface of the manufactured home.  Since there is no structural damage, this will in no way affect the utility of the manufactured home.  The amount we pay for this will be the difference between the actual cash value of the property immediately before the loss and its actual cash value immediately after the loss.
R. OUR RIGHT TO RECOVER PAYMENT

If we make any payment under this Certificate of Insurance and the lender or the borrower have the right to recover damages from a third-party, with respect to the event giving rise to such payment, we have the legal right of subrogation against that party. The lender or the borrower will:
1.	assign to us all rights of recovery against any such person or organization;
2.	execute and deliver to us any papers or security agreement;
3.	at our request, do whatever is reasonably necessary to enable us to exercise our subrogation rights; and
4.	do nothing after a loss to prejudice our rights.

We waive our right to recover payment against the borrower if the loss did not originate through the borrower’s willful or deliberate actions, knowledge or intent.

If the borrower accepts payment from any person or organization responsible for the loss, we reserve the right of recovery against the borrower.

If we recover more than our payment, we will reimburse the lender for the borrower’s account.

S. PREMIUM

The premium on each property covered shall be calculated using the rates in effect at the effective date of each Certificate of Insurance. 

T. PREMIUM REFUND

If a Certificate of Insurance is canceled for any reason, we will refund the premium on a pro rata basis.

U.	SETTLEMENT OF CLAIM REQUIREMENTS

1.	In case of a loss to covered property, the borrower must:
a.	take reasonable steps after a loss to protect the property from further loss. If the borrower fails to do so, any further damage will not be covered by this Certificate of Insurance;
b.	notify us or our agent of every loss or damage which may become a claim under this Certificate of Insurance. The submission of proof of loss shall constitute notification;
c.	submit a proof of loss (on forms supplied by us), to the lender within ninety (90) days from the date of the loss or as soon as reasonably possible. The borrower’s failure to do so will void any claim under this Certificate of Insurance for that loss with respect to the borrower’s interest;
d.	permit us to inspect and appraise the damaged property before its repair or disposal; and
e.	cooperate with us in the investigation, settlement, or defense of any claim or suit.





2.	In the event of a claim, we may require:
a.	examination under oath; and/or
b.	a sworn signed statement from:
(1)	the lender, the lender’s officers, agents or employees; and/or
(2)	the borrower or members of the borrower’s household.

3.	In the event of an unrecovered theft, the lender will assign to us:
a.	the security agreement to the extent as it relates to the covered property;
b.	the deed;
c.	the title; and
d.	the lender’s interest in the stolen property,
upon settlement of the claim.

We will adjust all losses with the lender.  Loss will be made payable to the lender and the borrower as their interests appear, either by a single instrument or by separate instruments payable respectively to the lender and the borrower, at our option.  

We will pay a claim within sixty (60) days after we receive proof of loss.





IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have caused this Certificate of Insurance to be signed by our President and Secretary, but it shall not be valid unless countersigned on the Certificate of Insurance Declarations by our duly authorized agent (where required by state law).




	______________________					________________________
	  Secretary	President 



COI0003C-0816	Page 1	

